NMS-14437: Add documentation to describe negate search terms in alarm… (#4971)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/alarms/alarm-advanced-search.adoc

[[ga-alarm-advanced-search]]

> = Alarm Advanced Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Advanced Alarm Search
```

Often users wish to query the alarm list with more customizations to narrow down the search. The Horizon alarm list page has a button to filter your searches based on different criteria.

The following are the criteria which can be searched upon:

* Alarm Text Contains
** Performs a substring filter on both the log message and the description
** To negate this search, prefix the inputted text with `-`. This will return results which do not contain the provided input text.

* TCP/IP Address Like
** Performs an `IPLIKE` on the provided IP Address to filter the results.

> ** To negate this search, prefix the inputted text with `-`. This will return results which does not satisfy the `IPLIKE` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, prefix the inputted text with `-`.
This will return results which does not satisfy the `IPLIKE` function.
```

* Node Label Contains
** Performs a substring filter on the Node Label.

> ** To negate this search, prefix the inputted text with `-`. This will return results which does not contain the provided input text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, prefix the inputted text with `-`.
This will return results which does not contain the provided input text.
```

* Severity
** Filter the alarms list based on the alarm severity.

> ** To negate this search, toggle the checkbox below titled "Negate Severity". This will return results which does not match the set Severity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, toggle the checkbox below titled "Negate Severity".
This will return results which does not match the set Severity.
```

* Service
** Filter the alarms list based on the alarm service.

> ** To negate this search, toggle the checkbox below titled "Negate Service". This will return results which does not match the set Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, toggle the checkbox below titled "Negate Service".
This will return results which does not match the set Service.
```

* Alarm type
** Select this dropdown to include Only Alarms, Only Situations or Both.

* Category
** Filter the alarms list based on the nodes category.

> ** To negate this search, toggle the checkbox titled "Negate Category". This will return results which does not match the set Category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, toggle the checkbox titled "Negate Category".
This will return results which does not match the set Category.
```

[[ga-advanced-alarm-search]]
= Advanced Alarm Search

Often users wish to query the alarm list with more customizations to narrow down the search.

> The Horizon alarm list page has a button to filter your searches based on different criteria.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {page-component-title} alarm list page has a button to filter your searches based on different criteria.
```

> The following are the criteria which can be searched upon:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Choose from the following search criteria:
```
Is this the order they appear in the UI? If not, please alphabetize them.

* Alarm Text Contains

> ** Performs a substring filter on both the log message and the description

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Performs a substring filter on both the log message and the description.
```

> ** To negate this search, prefix the inputted text with `-`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, prefix the input text with `-`.
```

> This will return results which do not contain the provided input text.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This returns results that do not contain the provided input text.
```

* TCP/IP Address Like
** Performs an `IPLIKE` on the provided IP Address to filter the results.

> ** To negate this search, prefix the inputted text with `-`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, prefix the input text with `-`.
```

> This will return results which does not satisfy the `IPLIKE` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This returns results that do not satisfy the `IPLIKE` function.
```

* Node Label Contains

> ** Performs a substring filter on the Node Label.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Performs a substring filter on the node label.
```

> ** To negate this search, prefix the inputted text with `-`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, prefix the input text with `-`.
```

> This will return results which does not contain the provided input text.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This returns results that do not contain the provided input text.
```

* Severity
** Filter the alarms list based on the alarm severity.

> ** To negate this search, toggle the checkbox below titled "Negate Severity".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, toggle the *Negate Severity* checkbox.
```

> This will return results which does not match the set Severity.

Reviewer 2: And to clarify ... is there a distinction between negate and exclude? In some situations, it seems that "exclude" makes more sense.

> This will return results which does not match the set Severity.

Reviewer: IMO, I agree that "Exclude" may be a better verb than "negate".  Also agree that if you have a multi-select of values, there doesn't need to be a negate/exclude option as the user can pick or not pick the values as desired.

> This will return results which does not match the set Severity.

Reviewer: For a Severity search that only gives one option, instead of having a checkbox to negate the single severity, there should be options for "=, <, >, <=. >=. !=" to find greater/less than as well.

> This will return results which does not match the set Severity.

Author: Sure, will look at making Severity a multi-select instead of a dropdown as there is multiple fixed values that could be.

> This will return results which does not match the set Severity.

Author: Also renaming of Negate to Exclude

* Service
** Filter the alarms list based on the alarm service.

> ** To negate this search, toggle the checkbox below titled "Negate Service".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, toggle the *Negate Service* checkbox.
```

This will return results which does not match the set Service.

* Alarm type

> ** Select this dropdown to include Only Alarms, Only Situations or Both.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Select this dropdown to include only alarms, only situations, or both.
```

* Category
** Filter the alarms list based on the nodes category.

> ** To negate this search, toggle the checkbox titled "Negate Category".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To negate this search, toggle the *Negate Category* checkbox.
```

> This will return results which does not match the set Category.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This returns results that do not match the set category.
```
See previous comments about negation and checkbox use as an alternative.

* Filter for Alarm's First Event After

> ** Select the timestamp to show alarms after the time of the first event relating to this alarm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Select the timestamp to show alarms after the time of the alarm's first event.
```

> * Filter for Alarm's First Event Before

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Filter for Alarms Before First Event
```

> ** Select the timestamp to show the alarms before the time of the first event relating to this alarm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Select the timestamp to show the alarms before the time of the alarm's first event.
```

> * Filter for Alarm's Last Event After

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Filter for Alarms After Last Event
```

> ** Select the timestamp to show the alarms after the time of the last event relating to this alarm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Select the timestamp to show the alarms after the time of the alarm's last event.
```

> * Filter for Alarm Last Event Before

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Filter for Alarms Before Last Event
```

> ** Select the timestamp to show the alarms before the time of the last event relating to this alarm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Select the timestamp to show the alarms before the time of the alarm's last event.
```
Wouldn't this provide the same results as "Filter for Alarm's First Event After"?
Can one combine these before/after alarm filters? If so, does the logic prevent them from cancelling each other out?

Author: An Alarm has 2 dates:
```
firsteventtime        | 2022-06-13 11:23:28.719+00
lasteventtime         | 2022-06-29 09:33:48.387+00
```
These 4 filters restrict the list based on these 2 fields. I thinking there is valid reasoning for them not to cancel out. You could have a long list of alarms where you only want a subset based maybe on the outer limits, or inner limits or both.

Granted, there does not look to be validation done for the case where  firsteventtime > lasteventtime, which i guess should never be a valid search

[[ga-advanced-alarm-search]]
= Advanced Alarm Search

Often users wish to query the alarm list with more customizations to narrow down the search.
The {page-component-title} alarm list page has a button to filter your searches based on different criteria.

Choose from the following search criteria:

* Alarm Text Contains
** Performs a substring filter on both the log message and the description.

> ** To negate this search, prefix the input text with `-`.

Author: oh yes, good catch. will update this.

> ** To negate this search, prefix the input text with `-`.

Reviewer 2: Is this ready for re-review? I didn't get a notification.

> ** To negate this search, prefix the input text with `-`.

Author: yeah can re-review, strangely it doesnt let me request a re-review, i think it is automatic in some way

This returns results that do not contain the provided input text.

* TCP/IP Address Like
** Performs an `IPLIKE` on the provided IP Address to filter the results.
** To negate this search, prefix the input text with `!`.
This returns results that do not satisfy the `IPLIKE` function.

* Node Label Contains
** Performs a substring filter on the node label.
** To negate this search, prefix the input text with `!`.
This returns results that do not contain the provided input text.

* Severity
** Filter the alarms list based on the alarm severity.
** This is a multi-select checkbox.

> Select the Severities you wish to filter by.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the severities you wish to filter by.
```

> By default they are unselected which return all alarms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default they are unselected, which returns all alarms.
```

> Selecting one or multiple severities will restrict your search results by those selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Selecting one or multiple severities restricts your search results to those selected.
```

* Service
** Filter the alarms list based on the alarm service.
** This is a multi-select checkbox.

> Select the Services you wish to filter by.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the services you wish to filter by.
```

> By default they are unselected which return all alarms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default they are unselected, which returns all alarms.
```

> Selecting one or multiple services will restrict your search results by those selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Selecting one or multiple services restricts your search results to those selected.
```

* Alarm type
** Select this dropdown to include only alarms, only situations, or both.

* Category
** Filter the alarms list based on the nodes category.
** To negate this search, toggle the *Negate Category* checkbox.
This returns results that do not match the set category.

> * Filter for Alarms after First Event

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Filter for Alarms After First Event
```
Technically prepositions like "before" and "after" should be lower case, but this is not consistent in the UI. Since the others here are all capitalized, this one should be too.
